.TH GRIP 1 "2006-07-29" "3.3.1" "Gtk Applications"

.SH NAME
grip \- A gtk-based cd-player and cd-ripper

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grip
.RB [\| \-\-class=CLASS \|]
.RB [\| \-\-config=CONFIG \|]
.RB [\| \-\-device=DEVICE \|]
.RB [\| \-\-display=DISPLAY \|]
.RB [\| \-\-disable-crash-dialog \|]
.RB [\| \-\-disable-sound \|]
.RB [\| \-\-enable-sound \|]
.RB [\| \-\-espeaker=HOSTNAME:PORT \|]
.RB [\| \-\-g-fatal-warnings \|]
.RB [\| \-\-gdk-debug=FLAGS \|]
.RB [\| \-\-gdk-no-debug=FLAGS \|]
.RB [\| \-\-gtk-debug=FLAGS \|]
.RB [\| \-\-gtk-no-debug=FLAGS \|]
.RB [\| \-\-gtk-module=MODULE \|]
.RB [\| \-\-geometry=GEOMETRY \|]
.RB [\| \-\-load-modules=MODULE1,MODULE2,... \|]
.RB [\| \-\-local \|]
.RB [\| \-\-name=NAME \|]
.RB [\| \-\-no-redirect \|]
.RB [\| \-\-oaf-ior-fd=FD \|]
.RB [\| \-\-oaf-activate-iid=IID \|]
.RB [\| \-\-oaf-private \|]
.RB [\| \-\-screen=SCREEN \|]
.RB [\| \-\-scsi-device=DEVICE \|]
.RB [\| \-\-sm-client-id=ID \|]
.RB [\| \-\-sm-disable \|]
.RB [\| \-\-sm-config-prefix=PREFIX \|]
.RB [\| \-\-small \|]
.RB [\| \-\-sync \|]
.RB [\| \-\-verbose \|]
.RB [\| \-\-version \|]
.PP
.B grip
.RB [\| \-? \||\| \-\-help \|]
.PP
.B grip
.RB [\| \-\-usage \|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grip
is a CD player and CD ripper/MP3-encoder for the GNOME desktop. It has the ripping capabilities of cdparanoia built in, but can also use external rippers (such as cdda2wav). It also provides an automated frontend for MP3 encoders, letting you take a disc and transform it easily straight into MP3s. The Ogg Vorbis format is also supported. The CDDB protocol is supported for retrieving track information from disc database servers. Grip works with DigitalDJ to provide a unified, "computerized" version of your music collection.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP

Application options:
.TP
.B \-\-geometry=GEOMETRY
Specify the geometry of the main window.
.TP
.B \-\-config=CONFIG
Specify the config file to use (in your home dir).
.TP
.B \-\-device=DEVICE
Specify the cdrom device to use.
.TP
.B \-\-scsi-device=DEVICE
Specify the generic scsi device to use.
.TP
.B \-\-small
Launch in "small" (cd-only) mode.
.TP
.B \-\-local
"Local" mode \- do not look up disc info on the net.
.TP
.B \-\-no-redirect
Do not do I/O redirection.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Run in verbose (debug) mode.
.PP

GTK+ options:
.TP
.B \-\-gdk-debug=FLAGS
Gdk debugging flags to set.
.TP
.B \-\-gdk-no-debug=FLAGS
Gdk debugging flags to unset.
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
X display to use.
.TP
.B \-\-screen=SCREEN
X screen to use.
.TP
.B \-\-sync
Make X calls synchronous.
.TP
.B \-\-name=NAME
Program name as used by the window manager.
.TP
.B \-\-class=CLASS
Program class as used by the window manager.
.TP
.B \-\-gtk-debug=FLAGS
Gtk+ debugging flags to set.
.TP
.B \-\-gtk-no-debug=FLAGS
Gtk+ debugging flags to unset.
.TP
.B \-\-g-fatal-warnings
Make all warnings fatal.
.TP
.B \-\-gtk-module=MODULE
Load an additional Gtk module.
.PP

Bonobo activation Support options:
.TP
.B \-\-oaf-ior-fd=FD
File descriptor to print IOR on.
.TP
.B \-\-oaf-activate-iid=IID
IID to activate.
.TP
.B \-\-oaf-private
Prevent registering of server with OAF.
.PP

GNOME Library options:
.TP
.B \-\-disable-sound
Disable sound server usage.
.TP
.B \-\-enable-sound
Enable sound server usage.
.TP
.B \-\-espeaker=HOSTNAME:PORT
Host:port on which the sound server to use is running.
.TP
.B \-\-version
2.14.1
.PP

Session management options:
.TP
.B \-\-sm-client-id=ID
Specify session management ID.
.TP
.B \-\-sm-config-prefix=PREFIX
Specify prefix of saved configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-sm-disable
Disable connection to session manager.
.PP

GNOME GUI Library options:
.TP
.B \-\-disable-crash-dialog
Disable Crash Dialog.
.PP

Help options:
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show this help message.
.TP
.B \-\-usage
Display brief usage message.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR GNOME Help
Start grip and select Help.

.SH AUTHOR
grip was written by Mike Oliphant <oliphant@gtk.org>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
